[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: The other bit that
I was gonna show is just a few minor
features of SCSS.
So here is the very simple CSS
that we have for the application.
Most of the styling for the TodoMVC
application is provided by some
external style sheets that we
don't necessarily care about.
Those are actually located here in
the base in index style sheets,
all of the different
implementations of TodoMVC.
Of which there are many, by the way, I
don't know if I called that out yesterday.
But if you're interested in seeing
the same application implemented across
multiple frameworks,
you can head out to TodoMVC.com and
kind of compare and
contrast different approaches to this.
So this is the place where I got the code,
if you haven't navigated
out there already.
So in our case, we actually don't
have a lot of custom CSS yet.
But some of the features that
Sass provides you that you
wouldn't necessarily have
otherwise are the ability to
create variables and
mix-ins and to nest your CSS,
which is actually one of the things
that I find most useful.
So for our server,
let's go ahead and run our server.
Come on now, expected character.
Yeah, I didn't back out the JavaScript
changes, so let's do that.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Okay, super.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right, so
here's our to do application.
As you can see,
I was spamming in quite a few entries
into the [INAUDIBLE] earlier on.
But when I'm writing my CSS code,
I'm usually kind of concerned
about the structure of my HTML,
so I have this section where
all of my to do's are.
I have this,
an ordered list with all of my to do's.
And I'm used to being able to write HTML
in a nice nested structure like this.
And SAS lets me write CSS in
that nested structure as well.
So in here, let's say I wanted to
add some styling to the list
items in my main class.
So I can come in here and
write a selector for
the main div much like
you would in Vanilla CSS.
And what I could do if I wanted to
target the list items of this list.
I could write a selector that
went something like this,
so for the owner, or excuse me,
the owner list items, these are the CSS
classes I would like to apply.
But that's not super dry because if
I also wanted to style d on our list,
itself, I'd have to have another CSS
declaration up there to do that.
So one of the nice things you can do
you in SaaS is nest those declarations.
So within the main div,
I'm going to add some styles to the UL.
Let's say, this might break the layout but
I'll add a nice big padding all
the way around the ordered list.
And then for the list items,
I'm gonna change the font style,
obviously, to Comic Sans MS
to class it up a little bit.
So our tooling found the changes to
the SaaS, automatically recompiled.
If I come back out here,
looks like I need to be
more specific with my list item styling
but I've got my big padding around the UL.
Obviously, we could just do that.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Kevin Whinnery: I won't
actually fix it.
>> Speaker 2: I just saw a tweet that
important is sounding like importing ants.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Importing ants.
>> Speaker 2: Into your CSS.
>> Kevin Whinnery: In fact,
I think it might must not be the LI.
There's another div in here
called the view input, and
it's a label so I don't know if
it's a cascading down that far.
So here if I did the label.
I just have to see it in Comic Sans now,
I have to get my fix.
>> Speaker 3: Actually, it's cuz of
your CSS properties, use font style.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Font family,
yeah, there we go.
>> Kevin Whinnery: There we go,
much better.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yes, so
that's one of my favorite
features is that you can
keep your CSS much drier
by nesting it in this way.
And let's say, now that we've decided that
Comic Sans is clearly the best font for
this application, and
we want to apply it globally.
We can create a variable
called app font or
something like that, and essentially,
set that equal to this string.
So we can use this Comic Sans MS,
font family declaration, and
we can use that variable here.
As the app font we could also say for
our, I believe, it's an H one,
I'll double check.
And say for the H one in our application,
I wanna do the same thing when
you use the app font font family.
So I've come out here and refresh,
it is actually quite a bit better.
I think they should have done that,
to begin with.
So few bits they are really useful.
And then let's say,
your CSS is getting a little crazy.
You feel the need to
break it up a little bit.
If you want to import CSS into
regular CSS style sheets,
there is one and only one place you can do
that which is at the top of the CSS file.
And you can't do that nested
within other CSS declarations.
But what we can do with SaaS is move this
content out to something called a partial,
which by convention as a file name,
we prefix it with an underscore.
We can call this main.css.
And here, in that SaaS file,
I can have these declarations and
not necessarily that you
would structured in this way.
But now, rather than declaring them
in line, I can actually include,
>> Kevin Whinnery: The main.scss.
>> Speaker 3: Does anyone
underscore on that?
>> Kevin Whinnery: The underscore
is conventional.
It denotes a SaaS file as a partial.
And when you do the include, you don't
actually need to include the underscore.
>> Kevin Whinnery: [INAUDIBLE]
was.
>> Kevin Whinnery: What?
You know what?
I think I just goofed this up.
I don't think I need the parenthesis.
I think I can just do that.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Or
maybe do I not even need that?
>> Kevin Whinnery: I might have to-
>> Speaker 4: Include or import?
>> Kevin Whinnery: What's that?
>> Speaker 4: Is it include or import?
>> Kevin Whinnery: I
thought it was include.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
I think I do need the quotes but yeah,
I think it might be important.
Yeah, there we go.
Yeah, it's the danger of doing it live,
that's for sure.
So now, if I refresh my page,
I still have my same stylings there.
So you can include like nested CSS,
I mean this way as well.
So basically, it gives your application
CSS an entirely new bag of tricks
that it didn't have before.
>> Speaker 5: What is it that's
actually monitoring the SaaS files and
compiling it to CSS?
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yeah, right on.
So in our grunt file,
the default task which runs
the development apps server
is this one the default task.
And what that is gonna do is it's
initially gonna compile our SaaS and
run our JavaScript code through browserify
like right away when we watch it.
And then it's gonna launch
this task concurrent dev.
And that's gonna do two things, it's gonna
launch two tasks, one of which is nodemon
which is gonna watch for
changes to our server-side JavaScript.
And the other is this guy or
is concurrent, where should I define that?
Here we go.
So here is where we define the task
that we want to run concurrently.
One of them is Watch which is
gonna recompile our SaaS and
our front end JavaScript.
And then the other one is nodemon.
>> Speaker 5: So it's really grunt
that's in the background, watching for
changes to your Saas files?
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yes,
it's a grunt plugin called Watch.
It's in the contrib package here.
So this Watch plugin has that capability.
It can run tasks when
a certain condition is true.